it's like Accenture they do a ton of
advertising do you really think they're
generating majority of their revenue
from having their logo plastic on the
FedEx Cup golf tournament no no
definitely not
so we we got to kind of kind of go
through the parts here so 2001 to now
obviously a lot has happened uh as far
as you being an entrepreneur in business
so what what are some of the cliff notes
Here some of the parts of that Journey
that are most important
I learned a few big valuable lessons one
don't try to take shortcuts I used to
try to use like black hat techniques to
try to get rankings really fast and just
climb my way to the top not the best
approach not smart uh eventually you get
whacked and you should take the
long-term approach because if I took the
long-term approach from day one I would
have had a much bigger business the
second thing I learned is
and this one it took me a long time to
learn brands are super important
you know if you look at the most popular
search queries on Google majority of
them are brands great product great
service does amazing to your marketing
and you can't take it for granted
the third thing that I really learned
and this one was the toughest one that
took me time to really focus in practice
was Focus you do too many things too
soon
nothing's really going to end up
happening
okay so what was what was the oh go
ahead
yeah and once they started focusing on
my business career my marketing career
focusing on what matters not chasing the
newest thing things started to grow and
become much better for me
right so what was what was the first
brand that really took off for you
uh crazy egg and
probably not first real brand our first
company that really took off was an ad
agency called ACS back in the day we no
longer own it uh that started taking off
and that did well
and we got that business to a few
million in Revenue really quickly didn't
know how to scale to 10 20 million or
anything like that the next business
that did uh decently well for us was a
brand called crazy egg we still have it
today
and over time just being in a market for
10 12 13 14 15 years your brand really
builds up people keep using your product
or service it adds up
um the next one that did all right was
kissmetrics that one failed due to FTC
investigations class action lawsuit over
data privacy we didn't really do
anything not even really we did not do
anything to uh on data privacy or you
know sell data or anything like that
but we use this cookie approach that
helped reduce our server expenses by
like 30 percent and people frowned upon
it and once we found out that you're not
supposed to end up doing it uh we
stopped but what we had the class action
mainly for wasn't just a cookie but they
said if we had Macy's as a client
hypothetically we're selling the data to
Nordstroms and with the FTC
investigation the government found that
we weren't doing anything wrong so we
passed with flying colors and then I
learned if you're in a lawsuit whether
you're doing something right or wrong
you still got to pay quote-unquote legal
fees it's not the government's actually
easier to deal with and uh believe it or
not it was actually cheaper to settle
than it was to spend the legal fees and
they knew them because we had insurance
so they're like look you know I remember
the lawyers calling us like look you
spend some money or your insurance will
spend the rest settle it'll be cheaper
and easier and I was like why would I
settle I'm actually right and then I
quickly realized you want to spend a
half a million dollars to a million
dollars battling it out or 50 Grand of
your own money and 500 Grand of the
insurance company's money you know like
huh basic math or I hate you spend the
50 Grand and settle
um at least 50 grand for that came from
our pocket uh and then the latest brand
is and this is my full Focus it's called
Ad Agency called NP digital we're 700
800 employees were Global
um and the businesses going well as good
as it could be in this market when
people like cutting marketing budgets
yeah yeah we can definitely get into
that yeah so
um the first Ad Agency you had how
similar is it to what you're doing a
Neil Patel digital today
very similar we're just doing a better
and at scale okay it was small right few
million in Revenue versus a nine figure
Revenue company there's a big difference
yeah so this this goes down to focus so
I'm assuming you know your focus right
now is is on MP digital and you're
probably not you probably don't have a
lot of other side probably not selling
courses you're not doing masterminds
you're just purely focused in on this
right now it's like focus on selling
courses or just sell one contract for
five million bucks a year or six or ten
million dollars a year right
I'll take the bigger contracts yeah well
let's talk logistically about how you
would execute that big of a contract
what size team is required uh what
systems are required to be able to do
that I mean that's a pretty big
undertaking
uh it's just skill typically bigger
contracts just usually mean either more
divisions of a corporation or more
regions of a corporation
so think of what you would do it on a
smaller contract for a hundred grand 200
Grand 500 Grand a year and you just at
you don't have to add tons more account
managers but you're going to have
admiracio people more pay-per-click
people more email marketing people more
conversion optimization whatever you're
selling them on typically it's when
you're getting the bigger contracts
you're selling um a little bit of
everything or quite a bit of everything
uh and your goal is to just deliver on
it
all right so the bigger part is not
actually how to scale up to that from an
operational standpoint it's just more
people the harder part is how do you get
them and typically a lot of that kind of
those kind of contracts are built from
reputation and relationships so if you
look at a lot of our executive team they
were
sea levels or presidents or Executives
at larger corporations in our space so
we hire a lot of people who are
Executives from densu wpp Omnicom right
we're taking people from the holding
companies because not only do they have
the experience managing dealing with
those clients scaling out the businesses
on a global scale
they also have the relationships which
helps you get more rfps in business
interesting yeah so you're not going to
be able to get these these types of big
fish by just getting some little lead
generation side or some some traditional
inbound technique that we would use
would not work
all right so check this out I don't I
don't I haven't checked my analytics in
months all right seriously for
neilpatel.com I get millions of visitors
whether it's three four five six seven
for Enterprise contracts can you guess
how many of them come from the website I
would guess virtually none
close uh a little bit more than 77
percent come from referrals
rfps or employees
and it's going down every year right so
that 77 will probably eventually become
90 something percent
yeah yeah because I'm assuming I'm
assuming the journey for them to
eventually become that type of lead is
very long because they probably maybe
watch something from you then they talk
to someone who knows you and it's this
big long Business Development process
that takes it's a very long journey
yeah but even if it's not a long journey
people don't sign the large contracts
usually without going through RFP
processes or procurements their systems
and procedures in places for a company
since I'm big contracts 100 Grand
contract no problem you can generate a
ton of them from inbound you want 5 10
20 million dollar contracts it's much
much harder to generate them from
inbound marketing or even paid
advertising it's like Accenture they do
a ton of advertising do you really think
they're generating majority of their
revenue from having their logo placid on
the FedEx Cup golf tournament no no
definitely not uh so so what is a let's
just take an example client of that size
like what is the sales cycle how long
does that sales cycle look from
beginning to end
quick end if you're lucky three months
bless you
bless you uh a long end six months to
year
yeah that's what I figured yeah
three months is really short
realistically most of them are six
months to a year
yeah and so let's say let's go on the
low end of three months like how many
touch points are we talking to get to a
closed deal
I don't know and here's why I say don't
know it's not that I'm not involved in
the process it's because there's so many
people involved in the process you're
pulling people from different
departments to help you with pitches and
phone calls and follow-ups and then
you're dealing with not just one or two
people on the other and you may be
dealing with you know
six seven ten people in marketing and
then they bring in people from different
countries or regions or different
divisions then they bring in procurement
so there's a lot of different people
that you're talking to a lot of
different touch points and sometimes
actually not sometimes a lot of times
not everyone is on the call at the same
time
interesting so I would assume that
foreign
worth of hours to close a deal like some
of these deals you're putting in 100
plus two three hundred thousand dollars
worth of hours to try to close the deal
some of the really big ones
yeah and I'm assuming just to be able to
even develop the type of proposal that
you would need to even win a deal like
that it's going to be some sort of
custom build it's going to be pretty
intense everything is
yeah it is analyzing a lot of numbers
and data and data rooms and all that
kind of stuff and you may not be paying
money to try to close and win those
deals but you're paying for a lot of
people's time and they're spending that
time on closing a deal so if you don't
close it they just spend all these hours
on something that produce no Revenue
so are your is your sales division
separate from your account managers or
are those Blended together
separate
we keep it all separate but account
managers also have a book of business
and they gotta upsell
s on new business account managers focus
on existing business
sales sometimes gets involved in
existing business but rarely uh and
funny enough a lot of our sales reps
were previous account managers so
they're uh they're experts themselves
when it comes to whatever they're
selling so like let's say you're we're
selling I'm making this up Ford on a
whole digital Performance Marketing
Suite SEO pay-per-click uh social media
organic and paid email marketing
conversion rate optimization uh data
analytics so this goes on and on right
our sales guys aren't A salesperson
they're more so industry experts that we
have them handle sales they started
their career doing the actual work maybe
then eventually going to account
management and then we try to bring them
over into sales
I think so because it's probably better
for them to have the nuanced
understanding of these technical skills
which then makes it easier for them to
be able to
actually hold their way if a client has
technical questions
yep yeah okay now let me ask you because
you probably have a lot of experience
with this so
I learned a while ago that
there's a big difference between people
that have hard skills and people who
have soft skills and something I learned
when working with clients was it's not a
great idea to use someone
as
operating from the soft skills and the
hard skills and having one person try to
do both of those things so like for
example having an SEO also be an account
manager I realized that that kind of
needed to be divided out so can you
explain why that is and why you need to
have that separated out
sure so SEO may be attention to detail
really good at optimizing code
um but they may struggle with client
communication reporting building up
Rapport well account manager may not be
in the weeds as much but they may be
amazing at maintaining the relationship
uh creating reporting communicating with
them figuring out overall strategy
Beyond just SEO and where the business
needs to go in understanding business
sense versus just quote unquote SEO or
marketing and understanding the roadmap
that the company needs to take in order
to achieve their goals right so you need
different people in different roles
because without that you're not going to
give a customer what they really want
it's hard to do that with smaller
accounts like someone paying you three
grand a month it's much easier when
someone's paying you a million dollars a
year or five million or whatever the
number is
right yeah so do you think do you think
that account managers like the skills
the soft skills that are required to be
a good account manager do you think that
that can be trained or you think that's
pretty inherent in certain people
uh it can potentially be trained that I
don't know if it can or can't we found
that when we hire Muslim we're naturally
that way and it's their personality type
yeah yeah that's that's definitely seen
the same thing
um okay so let's talk let's kind of
shift gears so I want to talk more about
your
let's call it your marketing strategy
that you use personally and I know most
your business does come from more
traditional uh means like we discussed
but you do produce a lot of content so
we need to talk about that right so
um so let's let's talk about I want to
know
what systems do you have in place to
produce that level of content on a
quantity and even a quality basis
obviously you must have really good
infrastructure to be able to do that
uh not as much as you think so there's
Pascal pascali who films my content for
my long form there's AJ who films my
short form
um they're solo and some of the team
help come up with ideas
and that's really it
um
we have solo manages a contractor who
comes out with my YouTube outlines my
YouTube outlines are title of idea
you'll type out an intro and he'll
create like six points with some stats
and that's it I gotta literally uh uh
freestyle it and pretty much create a
video same with my social media content
they just tell me a topic and I just
riff
and then the team worries about posting
it optimizing it all that kind of stuff
as for SEO I mean uh blog content
text-based content I write a post
roughly once a week posted on a Tuesday
I have a team that goes and updates all
my old content we spend way more time
updating old content than writing new
content
yeah that's that's interesting so you're
you're pretty much you're pretty much
hyper focused on just the actual
creation that you're giving the hand and
off to your team to to tackle all that
exactly yeah okay good to know all right
um now
let's talk about a couple quick things
here which obviously in the SEO industry
it's going to be people are gonna know
about this law more than others but so
you acquired ubersuggest and then you
recently acquired answer the public okay
so let's start with Uber suggests how
much has that benefited your the brand
um how is that side of the business
doing on the software side
so it's hard to put it one to one
um but roughly 40 of our agency
customers use ubersuggest so do they
find us and then use Uber CS or they use
Uber assess and then they find us it's
probably a mixture of both but it's
actually drove quite a bit of revenue
from that aspect
foreign
but that's why we bought ants to the
public to replicate the same thing
has it happened yet with that to the
public no
well we hope it happens within the next
year or two yes is it guaranteed no so
it's a 8.6 Million Dollar Bet
it's a pretty big bet
a motel yeah yeah that's interesting
because it's probably hard to quantify
in the short term you're gonna need a
lot of time to be able to see how that
unfolds
yeah we also overpaid for it right so it
wasn't doing more than 1.2 million a
year when we bought it
so it's not like we got a great deal
when we bought it
um but more so we believed that we can
generate way more revenue from
Consulting than we can from software
interesting I don't think we can get it
more into more ebitda yeah we think it
was mismanaged no one was focused on it
it should be at least three four times
bigger in ebitda than it is and that
will work on fixing in the next year and
we'll see if we get it there
um but the bigger thing is we weren't
really worried about the ebitdo or the
revenue we were we're more so focusing
on the Consulting end because we were
looking at the users that use it it's a
lot of big companies yet they don't
close any revenue from those big
companies
um so an untapped potential then that
you're trying to get into
Bingo that's why we bought it yeah very
interesting
to be super specific
yeah you were you were just trying to
get another Revenue stream
yeah we weren't trying to get another
SAS Revenue stream we were more so
looking for something to help feed the
agency more on a global basis
and when we look at answer the public
we'll run a similar Playbook to Uber
said that's like we start improving the
design we'll start playing with pricing
in the next week or two we'll start
giving people search volume and CPC data
for all the terms we'll make it where
they can click a button eventually and
automatically generate content using
like GPT
um you know any one of those software
Solutions so that way people can have a
blog post started for them
so we'll start doing all those kind of
things to make the product better
um we're also starting to store search
data not that it's Nathan searching but
just search data here's why the term
marketing look like six months ago and
here's what terms were popular so you
can compare over time and see what terms
are becoming more popular less popular
Etc and trending and all that kind of
stuff
very nice very nice so when you do this
acquisition are you inheriting the
existing team from that tool or are you
starting from scratch no team that was
the biggest problem with it they don't
focus on it they just they're like oh it
does like 100 plus Grand a month in
profit like it doesn't really do 100
Grand a month in profit you have no one
on that company so if you actually had
to add people which you usually do
because there's support requests Etc The
Profit goes way down that's why I said
we really overpaid for it we paid at
least eight times multiple on a company
that churns quite a bit
right
yeah well that's so what what would be
the reason to pay yeah I mean what would
so you so you must really see potential
then to to pay a premium like that you
must really see some long-term potential
as I mentioned Uber says generates 40 of
our clients that pay us 40 use
ubersuggest we're a nine figure Revenue
company you can do the math
on how much Consulting Revenue that it
can potentially Drive
and to the public at 70 of the traffic
as Uber suggests it was just a math
equation
yeah very interesting